What's up, my friend? You already know this is the Life in
English podcast. I am your host, Tony Kaizen, and man, I was
just sitting here reflecting on a conversation I had not too
long ago, and it made me think about something that we call
"knee-jerk reactions". A knee-jerk reaction is something
that...it's like this type of reaction that you have
instinctively; you don't even think about it. So if somebody
says something to you or does something to you or you see
something or whatever, just boom! Instantly, without
thinking about it, you react in some kind of way. Maybe you
immediately say something or do something, you know,
reacting to whatever has happened or whatever was said to
you. And I'm not sure exactly where this comes from, but
when I hear it, it makes me think of when you go to the
doctor and you sit on the uh...the bed, I guess you would
call it, and the doctor tests your reflexes, right? That
little silicone hammer that they use, and they'll start
testing all your reflexes and they'll *bam*...hit you on the
kneecap or right under your kneecap, I guess, and your leg
will *whoosh*...just instinctively move. It reacts without
you having to do anything. It does it involuntarily, just
*bam*, your knee jerks. It makes a jerking motion, a very
swift change of position or location.
Hopefully you get the idea of what I'm trying to say. That's
a knee-jerk react or that's like knee...That's when your
knee is jerking what I just describe it at the doctor's
office. So when you think about that in the term of
um...when you think about that in the case of life or
situations, it's just those moments when somebody hits the
right button or says the right thing or just does something
that makes you *tsss*, immediately just react without
thinking about it. That's a knee-jerk reaction. Now, the
reason I explained all that is because sometimes we have
knee-jerk reactions during conversations. You might be
talking to somebody and a lot of people who are really
excited to talk or share what they think or they're so
deeply involved with what they think and feel and their
opinions, even when they're not the ones that are speaking
but they have a tendency to do is listen only with the
intention of responding. And as soon as a response pops into
their mind, they feel compelled to say it. It doesn't matter
if the other person is still speaking. It doesn't matter if
the other person has made their point clear yet or anything
like that. It's just the listener in this case who's so
excited to talk just wants to share what they have to say.
The thought bubbles up into their mind and bam! "I have to
say it, I have to say it!" It's this knee-jerk reaction,just
instinctively. You see what I'm saying? It's almost as if
some people, when they're listening, we all do this from
time to time; you'll be listening to somebody and it's like
they say this certain thing in a certain way or whatever it
is, and immediately you've already made your mind up. In
other words, you've already decided what it is you think,
what it is you're going to say or what it is you're going to
do. The person hasn't even finished making their point yet,
but you've already made up your mind. So you just start
talking and you let them know you've made your mind up and
you disagree or...or you totally agree and you can relate,
and you've been through that too. You just have to voice
your opinions and thoughts, right? It's a knee-jerk
reaction. And in the past, I used to think people were just
like assholes, or ignorant or rude or disrespectful for
cutting me off and talking over me and, you know, not giving
me the time and space to express myself. But what I found is
in a lot of cases, man, people are not doing it because they
want to be rude or don't like, value what you had to say.
It's just they're so much more in tune with what they have
to say than they are with what you're trying to say. And
that doesn't make them a bad person or rude or an asshole or
nothing like that. They're just not aware of this knee-jerk
reaction that they have to talk over people to get their
word, and to express themselves, when maybe it would be
better if they just like, learn how to listen a little bit
more, or bring somebody else into the conversation, you
know, to...to kind of like be involved in the true dance
that is communication or a conversation, you know what I
mean? And it's just something to be aware of because you
might do this all the time and maybe nobody's ever brought
it to your attention, you know? It can really, really,
really serve you well when you slow down a little bit and
choose to wait until the other person has finished speaking,
or at least wait until they've truly made their point, then
think about what they said and then respond. It'll serve you
in so many ways, man, because you'll find that when you
listen more attentively and you stop interrupting people,
especially when they're telling personal stories or
answering questions that only they have the answer to, you
don't want to interrupt their thought process. There are
times when you can do that skillfully, but that's like a
higher level of communication skill. So I think when you
start at the basic level, you just have to learn to listen
attentively because people will start to tell you things
that you need to know or tell you things that make what
they're saying more interesting or give you more data to
process, and then take the conversation in a different
direction or learn more about them or understand what
they're truly trying to communicate. Because another thing
you have to remember is a lot of people are so lazy with
their word choice. They just find the basic, simplest way to
say things in very vague, you know, in very vague terms. And
sometimes it's consciously, other times it's...it's an
unconscious thing that we do. And so sometimes you have to,
like, be the person that's going to go the extra mile and
put in the extra effort to pull information out of somebody.
And you don't do that by asking them a million questions.
You do that by listening and looking for things like
the...the key points of what they're saying, to then take
the conversation in the direction you want it to go or
to...to encourage them to share the information you really
want from them. And I know this might be confusing or might
make it might not make any sense out of context, because I'm
just speaking off the cuff at this moment, and I'm not
giving you too many clear examples, but I'm hoping that I'm
getting my point across to you. Do not underestimate the
power of listening. Do not underestimate the advantage of
letting somebody finish their thought before you jump in to
contribute yours. You can share your thought. You can say
whatever it is you have to say. Just wait your fucking turn,
you know what I'm saying? And like I said, there are times
it's natural, man. In a conversation, people talk over each
other. They cut each other off. They want to show that they
understand and they're connecting and they're engaged. I get
it, bro. This is not me trying to talk shit and say you're a
piece of shit for not listening or you're a piece of shit
for having this knee-jerk reaction because I have it too. My
point is, like, you need to be aware of it and then maybe
you'll realize, "I can choose a different reaction in those
moments." Just..."I can resist the urge to jump in and cut
this other person off and shut them down. I can humble
myself and realize, like, listening is just as important as
speaking. What they have to say is just as important as what
I have to say. Because if it weren't, then why the fuck
would I be having a conversation with this person?" Right?
So don't always allow that knee-jerk reaction to dictate
what you do. And not just in conversation, but just in life.
You need to be aware of what some people call "triggers",
and you need to be aware of the knee-jerk reactions you have
when you get triggered. And when I say "triggered" in this
case, it's not even just negative stuff because like I said,
it could be a conversation about something positive. Just
resist that need, that knee-jerk reaction to cut people off,
to share everything that you're thinking and feeling, you
know what I mean? And have a little bit more patience and
self-control to listen to the person that you're speaking
with. You see what I'm saying? And of course, you also don't
want to get in a situation where you're just listening the
entire time or letting this other person go on and on and on
and on. There's many tactics and strategies or things you
can say or do when communicating with people, you know, to
maneuver these situations you find yourself in...in
conversation, right? So I don't even know if I'm making much
sense to you, man, sometimes, like, the way I think about
things is hard to explain with words. And that's why I
typically like to write podcast episodes before I record
them, because it helps me, like, organize my thoughts and
explain what it is I believe I understand in a concise, easy
to digest way, but when I'm just spitballing like this, I'm
like, "Man, if somebody's going to be following me here..."
I hope so. If you're still with me, obviously you're
following me. So, yeah, man, I just wanted to, like, put
that on your mind today because it's super, super, super,
super common when communicating with people. Some people are
just on autopilot or they have low levels of self-awareness.
Nobody ever brought it to their attention that they're poor
listeners or that they cut people off too much or they're
too involved with what they have to say. I mean, all these
things don't even make you a bad person or communicator, but
it's just communication is a skill and sometimes we don't
actively try to assess and then improve our own skills.
A lot of times there's... I did this in the past, man,
for...I spent so much...I wasted so much time, like,
criticizing other people's way of communication instead of
improving my own, because I find it very, very, very fucking
irritating when somebody is constantly cutting me off or
they're not truly listening to what I have to say. They're
not showing actual interest. But they said they were
interested in talking with me. All these things that just
irritate me personally. But so what? That...I mean, they
irritate me. That doesn't mean that the world needs to
change the way they communicate just so that I feel more
appreciated in a conversation. That's not how shit works. I
had to improve my communication skills and show more empathy
and just understand if somebody is cutting me off, it
doesn't mean that they don't care what I have to say or
they're not interested or...or whatever, they just have a
different communication style, a different level of skill,
different set of values, or are focused on different things
in the conversation and that's fine, right? So I had to
control, like, or I had to control my...my
decision-making, for lack of a better term, I had to, like,
be aware of my knee-jerk reaction when I come across
somebody I see as a poor communicator because I'm not a
fucking expert communicator either. I'm sure there's a lot
of shit that I say or do that could be improved or stopped
altogether, you know what I mean? So um, anyway, man, the
point is, like I said...like I say, from time to time, I'm
learning a...new stuff about communication all the time. So
whenever I can share it with you, give you something to
think about, I think that's valuable, man. So give
this...this idea some thought. Analyze, like, take a look at
yourself in your conversations, your life, the conversations
around you and just see if you can start to notice what I'm
talking about in yourself or in other people, and then maybe
you can kind of develop some way to to overcome those
knee-jerk reactions and really take control of your decision
making so that you can have more productive conversations,
make deeper connections with people who understand people
better, because those kinds of things lead to everything you
want in life, whether it's more money, more relationships,
more travels, more success, a better job, whatever it is,
it's communication, bro. It is communication. It is the
difference between getting that job and not getting that
job. It is the difference between making that salary and not
making that salary, getting access to this place or not
getting access. Getting her phone number or not getting it.
You understand what I'm saying? Communication, bro.
Communication. You and I are going to develop our
communication skills one day at a time. Alright? But that's
it for now, my friend. Hopefully you enjoyed this episode of
the Life in English podcast. I am your sensei, Tony Kaizen,
and I'll talk to you soon. Peace!